(upbeat music)
All right, this exercise, what I like to call it, Cardio.
Cardio is where I make you just do a whole bunch of stuff
that's all related to each other with the hopes that you
sort of get better at it and that you
sort of put yourself through it.
In my JavaScript 30 course I have a Ray Cardio.
And actually I have two days of Ray Cardio,
and it's just lots and lots of practice to get better at it.
Just at the fundamentals before we start building
real stuff that had interfaces and what not.
So, what I want you to do now is to pause this video
and to do all this yourself
and try to get as far as you can,
there's no sort of right answer,
there's a bunch of different ways that you could solve this.
And then come back and sort of see how I've done it.
I've intentionally not done this myself
so I'm not looking at an answer
or anything like this right here.
Just so you can sort of see my thought process
just to how I approach it.
So we've got DomCardio.html,
there's no HTML in the body at all
and this is just a blank JS file.
So, go get her, come back,
and I'll see you when you're done.
Welcome back!
That was fun, so let's get going in it.
Make a div.
Const div equals document.createElement.
I'm gonna create a div.
Add a class of wrapper to it.
So div.classList.add wrapper, put that in the body.
Document.body.appendChild div.
Lookin' good.
Make another list.
This seems familiar, we've done this.
So, let's do it the other way.
Const ul is equal to ul.
Add three list items with the words one two three.
Put that list into the above wrapper.
Okay, so, we'll take out li one, two, three
and then put that list into the above wrapper.
Now, there's a couple of ways you could approach this.
We could say div.innerHTML is equal to ul
and then console log the div,
let's see what we're working with.
There it is.
Oh, it's good, I like that, that works for us.
We could've also done the fragment thing,
but since there was nothing in this one,
it's easy to just say .innerHTML.
Next one, I'll create an image.
Image, set the source to an image.
So image.source is equal to, what was that?
Picsum, one that we did.
Set the width to 250.
So, we'll leave this at 500 so it'll look good
on hi-res screens, but then we'll set the width of it
to be 500, so image.width, 250.
Add a class of cute.
Image.classList.add cute.
Add an alt of cute puppy.
Image.alt equals cutePuppy.
And then append that image to the wrapper.
So, we'll take our div and we will insert,
I don't know, we can just call appendChild
with the image on it.
We don't need to insert a JSON
because it's just gonna go to the bottom of it.
There we go, unfortunately, not a puppy.
Not a puppy, not a puppy, not a puppy (laughs).
Actually, one kinda cool thing about that,
you see how this is like jumping?
If we were to put a height on that image as well,
you'll see that it's not jumping anymore
and that's because if you give it within a height attribute,
it will sort of maintain its spot
while it loads in the image, which is great.
So, it's kind of a cool thing we could do.
If you know the width and the height of the image
before you are loading it.
With an HTML string, make a div,
with two paragraphs inside of it.
Put this div before the unordered list from above,
add a class to the second paragraph called warning,
remove the first paragraph.
(chuckles) Okay.
Const, what should we call this sucker?
I can't think of what it would be called.
Let's just call it myDiv, I like it.
And we'll use, actually, let's call it myHTML
'cause it's not an actual element yet.
So make a div, done.
With two paragraphs, paragraph one and paragraph two.
Put this div before an unordered list from above.
So, we want to somehow grab that ul,
which we still have reference to it,
let's double check we still do.
So, console log ul.
No, 'cause that, oh, you know what?
That's not the actual unordered list.
That is the HTML and there's no reference
to the element yet, because we just inserted it into the ul.
So what we can do is grab that somehow.
And we'll say const ulElement is equal to,
we have a div and we will look inside of it
for our unordered list and then console log ulElement.
There it is.
And put this div before the unordered list above.
So it's ul.insertAdjacent.
So ulElement.insertAdjacentElement and we wanted to go
beforebegin, I think.
It's kinda confusing, the names of them.
We'll take our ul and then we, oh, we can't.
If we were to take myHTML, watch, it's gonna yell at us.
Failed to execute insertAdjacentElement on Element
parameter two is not a type of element.
So what we've done here is we've created it with a string
so how do we insert it adjacently?
So we could actually use another one,
which is ulElement.insertAdjacentHTML,
I think that will just, we'll be able
to swap it out with that.
Does that work?
Beautiful, it works, so you can just create the div,
insert the HTML in and then it will transform it.
The other way we could've done it is done the create range
and then created a document fragment from that.
Add a class to the second paragraph called warning.
Okay, so now, we need to select that paragraph somehow.
So, let's take a look.
We have a wrapper and then it's the first div that shows up.
It's actually the only div that shows up.
So we could say const myDiv is equal to document,
oh, we can not look document wide,
we'll just take original div.
And we could do a couple of things here.
We could do querySelector for a div
or we could .firstElementChild.
And I think that is, let's do this one.
'Cause you know how querySelector works.
Let's take a look at myDiv, let's console log it.
All right, that's working.
Actually no, I don't like that.
Because then, for some reason you change
the order of your elements, it all automatically breaks.
So I don't like that, I'm taking that back.
I'm gonna do this but I'm gonna go up here
and give it a class of myDiv.
And then here, I'm just going to select myDiv.
So I like that a little bit better.
Put a class on it and then select it.
That's why it's a little bit more resilient.
Do we still have it?
Yeah, good, we still got it.
Remove the first paragraph.
So, myDiv.firstElementChild.remove.
Good, and we forgot this.
Add a class to the second paragraph called warning.
So, myDiv.children, is that it?
Let's see, myDiv.children.
Good, and it's oh, we've already removed it.
We're getting ahead of ourselves here.
So we got both of them, I want the second paragraph,
which is the, so we can reference it with a one,
'cause zero would be the first one,
one would be the second one.
Good.
And we'll say classList.add warning.
There we go.
And then we'll remove the first one.
Beautiful.
All right, next, create a function called
generatePlayerCard that takes in three arguments,
a name, and age and a height.
Have that function return HTML that looks like this.
Div of the class of playercard, name, their height.
Okay cool.
So, the first one, create
a function called generatePlayerCard.
So we'll say function, generatePlayerCard,
takes in three arguments.
Takes in a name and age, and a height.
From that, you have to return a div
with a class of player card.
So we will const, we could either do this,
we could return backtext, and then inside of that,
we have div or what we can do is tick this
in the variable and then return the HTML.
Make sure you spell constraint, not cosnt.
And this will have a class of playerCard.
And let's see if it works.
generatePlayerCard, good.
Returns a div, there's some stuff in it, good.
Inside of that, we need h2 with name and age.
So, h2 tag will interpolate the name and the age.
Oh.
And then paragraph that says, let's put it in there.
They are height and age.
In dog years, this person would be age times seven.
Remember that we can do statements inside of this,
works just fine.
It looks like my formatter puts it on its own line
decide that that's where it wants to break it.
That would be a tall dog.
So now, let's try it.
If we run, it would the name of Wes, and age, 12
and a height of 150 cm.
Wes, 12, they are 150.
We should make this, we'll say their height is
and however many years old, let's rerun that.
And 12 years old, in dog years, this person
would be 84, that would be a tall dog.
All right, that makes sense.
What would be kind of a little bonus exercise here
is if you could take in the centimeters,
which is what we're using here
and if you're from America, you can convert that
to feet and inches.
So maybe write a little function that takes in centimeters,
converts that to inches and then figures out
how do you convert pure inches to feet and inches.
That'd be kind of a fun one to do,
but I'm from Canada, and we don't need to do that.
So, that's America's problem. (laughs)
Okay, we got that.
And we have this function here called playerCards.
Now, down here, it says make a new div
with a class of cards, okay, cool.
Const cards equal to document.createElement.
Cards.classList.add cards.
Have that function make four cards,
and append those cards to the div, okay.
So, there's a couple of ways we could do this
because this function returns a string,
we could loop over it four times
and create four cards of HTML.
Let's show you a couple of ways to do it.
So, const cardsHTML is equal to amt string.
Or maybe we'll just run it the first time.
So what was our function called?
generatePlayerCard.
And we'll run it with Wes, 12 and 150.
Then let's just console log, cardsHTML.
Failed to execute createElement on Document.
One argument required, oh, you could tell it
what kind of element you want, a div.
Okay, so that works.
But then, how do you keep tacking on to that?
Well, we could change this to a let
and then we can say cardsHTML is equal to cardsHTML
plus and we've run it again.
Say, Scott, and then do it again.
Kait.
And Snickers.
Although, he is a dog already, whatever.
Okay, so, let's console log that.
That will give us four different cards here.
That seems to be working.
So, that's one way.
Another way would be just to create
four separate variables for each of those.
Another way would be you could take an array of names
and loop over them, that's probably how I would do it,
we don't know about arrays just yet,
but we'll be doing lots of examples like that coming up.
And I guess, another way is that we could take the cards div
and call insertAdjacentHTML.
And we're gonna say afterbegin, I think.
And then just pass it, regenerate it
output of this function and then
just run that four times over.
So, lots of different ways because it's not in the (mumbles)
I think all of those are probably the same.
I wouldn't sweat doing one way over another.
I'm gonna keep it at this so we'll take the cards
and say innerHTML is equal to cardsHTML
and then, put the div into the DOM
just before the wrapper element.
Okay, so before the wrapper, which is this one div.
So, we'll say, div.insertAdjacentElement
'cause the cards is a proper element.
And we say beforebegin and we'll pass it the cards.
Does that work?
Hey, lookin' good!
Lookin' good, so now, we have each of our cards.
We can probably do, just to add
a little bit of style for those.
So style.
Does each of our cards have a class playerCard?
Say, cards, display grid, grid, template,
columns, repeat for lfr, grid-gap, 20px.
Okay.
And then we'll say playerCard
background white, padding 20px.
Looking good.
And...
Change that to black.
(whistles) Very nice, very nice.
Maybe add a little bit of padding to this.
That looks good.
So, we've got each of those cards, let's go back
to our answer here.
Append those thing, put the div thing
and then oh, bonus, put a delete button on each cards
so when you click it, the whole card is removed.
So we haven't done this, but who cares?
Let's look ahead.
We'll go to where we generate the card.
And we'll put a button and a class of delete.
And you also have to give it a type of button,
which is kind of funny.
And then in there, we'll just say &times, delete.
Okay, we got all of our buttons here.
And when you click on one of those,
I wanna remove the card.
So what we can do here is we can select all the buttons.
Const buttons is equal to document.querySelectorAll
button, or what was it?
Delete.
Let's see what we got okay, so we got our four buttons,
they're on the page and we can loop over them
and attach a listener.
Actually, we'll make our delete function.
Function deleteCard.
Console log, delete card to do.
We'll do that later.
And then loop over them attach a listener.
So we'll say buttons.forEach button.
Button.addEventListener.
We're gonna listen for a click
and when that happens, we are going
to run the deleteCard function.
Does that work?
So when I reclick it, runs the deleteCard.
So in here, what we can do, is we can pass the event.
Again, this is going ahead of us, but this is bonus, folks.
So, hold on to your pants.
If we console log the event.currentTarget,
it gives us access to the actual button element,
that's good, so that was the element that got clicked.
So we'll say const buttonThatGotClicked
is equal to event.currentTarget.
And then we need to find out the parent div.
And there's a couple of ways we can do this.
We can say buttonThatGotClicked dot,
is it just one level up?
.parentElement.remove.
Is that gonna work?
Lots of red there, who knows?
Boom!
It removes it, so that's pretty cool.
Another way that we could've done it
is we could say, buttonThatGotClicked.closest
.playerCard.remove, oh, what's this?
Is this gonna work?
Let's see, it works.
So, what does closest do?
Closest will look at an element and move itself
up the tree of Dom elements until it finds
something that matches this right here.
And that's pretty cool because what you can do is,
right now, both of these work.
But what if I were to change where that button goes?
Like if I were to take this button
and for some reason, I put it inside of this paragraph,
so now it's button paragraph div.
Do both of these still work?
This one is traversing based on a parent element.
(chuckles) And now it just deletes its parent.
Which is a paragraph tag and not an actual div.
So, by using this one, it will search for the div
or any element that has a playerCard class and remove that.
And even though we remove the button over,
you see that it still works.
Whoo!
Hopefully you are sweaty if you just passed that,
Tweet me @wesboss and tell me how sweet you are
going through that.
With that, let's move on to the next section.